Adding Substring term. (#5580)
Codecademy/docs: content/c-sharp/concepts/strings/terms/substring/substring.md

---
Title: '.Substring()'

> Description: 'Returns the substring of a string instance starting at a given index'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the substring of a string instance starting at a given index.'
```

Reviewer: full stop missing

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.Substring()`** method is a string method that returns a substring of a string starting at the given index number, it will return all characters unless a maximum length is given. This method returns `Empty` if the index is greater than the length of the string instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.Substring()`** method is a string method that returns a substring of a string starting at the specified index. It will return all characters from that index to the end unless a maximum length is specified. If the starting index equals the string length, it returns an empty string (`""`). If the index is greater than the string length, it throws an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException`.
```

Reviewer: corrected the definition as it does not return `Empty`

## Syntax

```pseudo
Substring(int startIndex);

> Substring(int startIndex, int Length)

Reviewer: We can write this as:

.Substring(int startIndex)

Or, alternatively:

.Substring(int startIndex, int length)

```

> - `startIndex`: The index from where the substring starts.
> - `Length`: The maximum length of the substring - (Optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `startIndex`: The index from where the substring starts.
- `Length` (Optional): The number of characters to include in the substring..
```

Reviewer: reframed for better readability

## Example

> In this example, `.Substring()` is used to return the substring of "Codecademy" starting at, and including, index "4".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `.Substring()` is used to return the substring of "Codecademy" starting at index `4` and includes all characters from that position to the end of the string:
```

```cs

> string str = "Codecademy";
> 
> Console.WriteLine(str.Substring(4));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using System;

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        string str = "Codecademy";
        Console.WriteLine(str.Substring(4));
    }
}
```

Reviewer: included the code in a class

```

It returns the following output.

> ```cs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

Reviewer: The output is always wrapped in the ```shell``` block

"cademy"
```

## Example 2

> Here, `.Substring()` is used with the optional "Length" value so that it returns a string composed of the 6 characters from index 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `.Substring()` is used with the optional `length` parameter to return a substring of 6 characters starting from index `2` of the string `"Codecademy"`.
```

```cs

> string str = "Codecademy";
> 
> Console.WriteLine(str.Substring(2, 6));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using System;

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        string str = "Codecademy";
        Console.WriteLine(str.Substring(2, 6)); 
    }
}
```

```

It returns the following output.

> ```cs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```pseudo
```

"decade"
```

## Codebyte Example

> In this Codebyte example, `.Substring()` is used to return a name without it's initial letter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the Codebyte example, to understand how the `.Substring()` method works:
```

---
Title: '.Substring()'
Description: 'Returns the substring of a string instance starting at a given index.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:

>   - 'Strings'
>   - 'Methods'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
```

CatalogContent:

>   - 'learn-c-sharp'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
```
Include only those course/paths that are already part of catalog-content list, Here `learn-c-sharp` is not available in that list, so you can add it in the [catalog-content.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/catalog-content.md) file, so that it follows all the contribution guidelines.

  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.Substring()`** method is a string method that returns a substring of a string starting at the specified index. It will return all characters from that index to the end unless a maximum length is specified. If the starting index equals the string length, it returns an empty string (`""`). If the index is greater than the string length, it throws an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
.Substring(int startIndex)
```

Or, alternatively:

```pseudo
.Substring(int startIndex, int length)
```

- `startIndex`: The index from where the substring starts.
- `Length` (Optional): The number of characters to include in the substring..

## Example

In this example, `.Substring()` is used to return the substring of "Codecademy" starting at index `4` and includes all characters from that position to the end of the string:

```cs
using System;

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        string str = "Codecademy";
        Console.WriteLine(str.Substring(4));
    }
}
```

> It returns the following output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example results in the following output:
```

```shell
cademy
```

## Example 2

In this example, `.Substring()` is used with the optional `length` parameter to return a substring of 6 characters starting from index `2` of the string `"Codecademy"`.

```cs
using System;

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        string str = "Codecademy";
        Console.WriteLine(str.Substring(2, 6)); 
    }
}
```

> It returns the following output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above code generates the following output:
```

> ```pseudo
> decade
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell
decade
```
```
The output is always written inside the shell block.

## Codebyte Example

> Run the Codebyte example, to understand how the `.Substring()` method works:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The below code demonstrates how to use the Substring method:
```
